---
layout: post
title: The Block Bitcoin anti-cafe in Lisbon - a great place to visit
categories:
- blog
---

# The Block Bitcoin anti-cafe in Lisbon - a great place to visit

Lets continue the subject of the importance of building communities and the values it can give one: In Lisbon, I found a nice and cozy place that is called “The Block” (beforehand it had the handle “cafe” to it, but it was taken off, as to not to create stigmas - though the coffee is still there).

The Block, is a kind of a mixture between a coworking area and an open space (maybe even an anti-cafe), where almost at any time of the day (except for night time, at which you should be sleeping), one can meet blockchain enthusiasts, developers and other fairytale creatures (yep - we still exist). 

The greatest thing about this place is that it doesn't except FIAT. At all. None. You can pay with BTC or ETH. You can also pay with shitcoins, but you have to ask Marc prior to doing that, it is a free market after all - so you can ask. But of course, Marc will always say - no :-)

You can rent a coworking space in The Block (for the time the price stands roughly at 150 USD) (don't worry about the change in price - you can pay for that with DAI). You can have a beer, rent a small conference room for a couple of people, or you can just come and have a conversation with some clever, amazing and modest people ;-)

Of course, The Block's initial challenge is to build a community. That means, that there are free meetups /master classes/ presentations/ workshops, that are being held here, between 2 - 3 times a week. Of course, you can attend those for free. The topics are very different (no trading or marketing bullshit) - and after the meetups, there is always plenty of networking.

So, if you find yourself in Lisbon - type in “The Block” into Google maps (it's a 30-minute walk from the center) and follow the white rabbit… Or, just look out, for the black Bitcoin flag when you get here.  

http://theblock.cafe/

--------------------------

If you are into photos, then: <br>
https://steemit.com/blockchain/@serejandmyself/the-block-bitcoin-anti-cafe-in-lisbon-a-great-place-to-visit
