---
layout: post
title: Taking back control with search
categories:
- blog
---

Post-industrialism is heading towards its end. With everyday past and never-ending technological progress, humanity is getting closer and closer to entering the digital age. One of the main questions that remain unanswered is “who will control the matrix?”.

We have all been lead to believe that the matrix is an anti-utopia, when in fact it is a utopia. The essence of existing in the digital realm is astonishing. Perfect consensus. Ideal mathematical trust. Never-endless possibilities of the mind. But who controls all this?

One of the biggest issues is the lack of understanding of the pure evil that stands behind the digital information controlled by megacorps. Cambridge Analytica is one example of what those things can and will lead to. China is creating a digital totalitarian regime right in front of us and people stand abstracting from it, as it were not there (haven’t we already been here in the 30’s of the last century?).

If you think about it, then the only way forward to fix all this is to make sure you control the matrix that you live in. Your digital print (your soul) has been wondering the digital realm for years and with blockchain and cryptography on the scene, your digital soul has gained digital money, digital freedom in decision making (consensus rules) and a digital fingerprint (your private key). People need to understand that the further we move, the more important it becomes to make sure we are in control of our information. Of ourselves.

How to fix this? The start lay with the genius of Google. Their idea to use the whole world to build semantics for free is astonishing. We have been doing so for the past ~20 years without realizing. Search engines are your father, your school, your religion that you blindly believe in. But semantics makes the world spin round. It is used in political decisions, in logistics, in mapping, in financial decisions, social decisions, used to gain knowledge, etc. It is right here that we should start to fix things.

The mechanism for creating knowledge graphs and access to information should be drastically changed. It should be a mechanism that is fair, dynamic, auditable and understandable to many. Hence, cyber has created a completely new search mechanism, one suited for the new Great Web. A decentralized version of Google, for provable and relevant answers. The recipe is simple: take what already exists, add cryptography, Sybil resistance, economic incentives and it is pretty much ready to use. With the help of IPFS and our mechanism, it is now possible to build knowledge graphs of any kind, where information is ranked and indexed fairly and dynamically.

Users, create cyberlinks (semantically enriched linked hashes between IPFS links) backed by token weight and via spending bandwidth. Then, the validators compute this information on the graph. This is a very high-level explanation.

Existing search engines, such as Google, use thousands of professional assessors to improve the quality of search rank. Validators, governed by the users, have the maximum economic interest in the entire protocol and can voluntarily allocate part of their commission to pay for professional search assessors. Each validator may provide an application for the assessor to make any search more relevant. The application would index all the transactions and store the information about changes of weights on the knowledge graph. Assessors receive assignments to check the relevance of cyberlinks and, if necessary, they increase the weight of the links. If the assessor increased the weight of the link, and the final weight due to the actions of the other agents also increased, then the cyberlink was more relevant and the assessor may receive a reward from the validator.

cyber is a machine for relevance and an intelligence for answers from the people, by the people. It can prove subjective relevance at any point of space and time between any two objects. We are confident that the measures described above will allow us to build an effective search, without the need to transfer their personal data to intermediaries like Google and Facebook.

While creating this mechanism we have realised a very simple thing. Such a simple mechanisms changes the game. It changes the existing semantic field and gives the power of decision making back into the hands of the people. Along the way, creating a place for things like autonomous robots, personal data and knowledge bases, the ability for offline search, the ability to gain access to your brain and query it for any information. The ability to build local subjective mechanisms based on values, requirements and free choice. All of this and much more while you remain in control!

This is only the beginning. Don’t believe. Don’t fear. Don’t ask. Cyber
