---
layout: post
title: The future is here, the future is corona part 2
categories:
- blog
---

> A solution to a problem should not be worse than the problem itself

## Time for a recap
Spring 2020: [It's kind of obvious](https://serejandmyself.github.io/blog/2020/03/23/future.html) that this shit is getting out of hand.

We didn't avoid the obvious. It happened. And if not us, then whom could have repeated it? Roughly 100 years ago, WW-I broke out, it was an end, and as per obvious, the beginning, of a brand-new era. With the good, the bad and the ugly, it was the biggest intervention into human privacy. Main primarily intervention into privacy and business by the government. Most of the 'then' introduced measures where periodical measures to help. But, as we all know, they stayed.

The new measures are here to stay. We are re-living an amazing history cycle. One that will see an economical, political, technological and moral shift in human history.

## What it is it good for?
Well, if you know the answer, then probably you might not need to read any further. Bummer.

Covid-19 has changed the world for many things, including the so-called 'lockdowns'. Regardless of the effect of the virus, these measures (mostly idiotic) do have an effect on the way the waves and the spreaders work, hence taking longer than the 1-2 years for the Spanish flu global immunity to occur. This time will be longer.

We will see new interventions (already happening with the 'health apps') into privacy, border control (oops, that's already happened) and business. Regardless of whether states economics will fall due to these measures, we will see a growth in satellite-cites, private banking, centralized digital money (hello yuan) and the continuation of the rise of blockchain.

Cycles repeat. We are a living organism. The deadliest virus on this planet are the corruption in the governments and the (un)abolished slavery.

B.C. is over. It's now After Corona
